[MUSIC]
Hello, again.
In this video, we're gonna be using
animation events to control the problem we
had of the lizard walking at one speed,
even when they're supposed to be jumping
and now sliding across the screen, and
having a little bit of fun to add more
depth to our control over our animation.
So let's jump in and get started.
Okay, what are animation events,
and where do we find them?
Let me show you a slide.
And to add an event,
you see our animation window here,
there's the little button
that's the Add event button.
That will add an event on the timeline,
wherever your timeline
slider bar thingy is, and
you can add a whole bunch of events.
This will call a function that
we have in our script, so
let's put this into practice.
Let's jump over and find Lizard Walk.
And from Lizard Walk,
I wanna find my timeline.
Sometimes you need to click around a
little bit, I find, to jog it into place.
Cool, we've got it there.
Here is the event button,
I'll click on that.
That's added an event right at the front
of my timeline cuz that's where my slider,
what's this thing called?
The timeline line indicator doobie
whatsit, I think is the technical.
Go look that up in the Unity docs,
I think that's what you'll find,
the doobie whatsit.
Okay, so I've added one event here.
If I click over in the Inspector,
you can see that we have Function,
Float, Int, String, Object.
This means that we can call a function
that we need to have
somewhere in our script.
And the way we've structured this is
when Lizard Walk, as an animation,
is placed on a lizard, and we have our
lizard prefab that it's on at the moment.
Then another class that is
also on that game object,
also on Lizard, we will be able to call.
So let's create a function here called
SetMovementSpeed, SetMovementSpeed.
So on Lizard Walk, we want our lizard to,
let's be a little bit crazy here.
We'll set this to 10,
just to make sure this is working.
That should be fun and crazy.
So the very instant the lizard is created,
it'll be 10.
You know what, I'm gonna grab this and
drag it, cuz you can move it around.
I'm gonna drag it into the middle of my
timeline so that we'll go along, go along,
and then we get at this point [SOUND],
it's gonna go to 10,
which will be super exciting.
Okeydokey, so let's go and
open up our script.
I will open up the Attacker script.
And working on the Attacker script,
what I'm gonna do first of all is change
this notion of a serialized walkSpeed.
So we want more than walkSpeed,
we want our lizard, or
whichever attacker we're referring to,
to have a notion of movement speed,
whether that's the jump or the walk.
We wanna have this movement speed so that
we can have different amounts of speed.
So I'm gonna just get rid of that and
change it to a float,
doesn't need to be serialized.
What should we call this, my friends?
Let's call it currentSpeed, so
we're very clear that's
currently how fast we're going.
We'll initialize it to 1f, okay.
And you know what,
I'm not gonna need my Start for now,
we'll bring it back if we need it.
I don't need to know that updates
are called once per frame.
I think we know that by now.
Instead of walkSpeed,
I'll change this to currentSpeed
in my method here on the update.
We're saying, move with current speed.
Now, this is where we need
to do a little bit of magic.
We need to have our animation,
when it comes along, plays [SOUND].
When it gets to this frame on this
animation, it is going to call,
let's click on that.
It's going to call what?
It's gonna call SetMovementSpeed, so
we need to create SetMovementSpeed
as a public function.
This is where I have a challenge for you.
I want you to create a public method
called SetMovementSpeed(), and
we will require that method to
pass in a float called speed.
So it'll have the parameter,
which is a float, what we'll call speed.
So hopefully that makes sense,
a little bit of rejogging your
memory here on how that works.
So I need to pass in a float called speed,
and then I'd like for you to update
the attacker's current speed so that it is
now the speed value that was passed in.
So I'm gonna pass in speed from.
Where are we passing from?
From over in here,
from our animation event.
And it's gonna be a float, and then we
want to, in our script, in our Attacker
script, to then update the current speed
to be the speed that was just passed in.
So hopefully that makes sense.
If not, sit there and
then ponder it for a while,
see if you can get your brain around it.
Give it your best shot,
this is how you learn the best,
is taking on these challenges.
And I'll see you back in here
in a moment for the solution.
Okay, how did you get along with that?
I'm pretty sure that you nailed it.
But just in case,
let's go through this together.
Back into my script, what I need
to do is create a public method.
So public, there's no return type,
so it's void,
and we're calling this SetMovementSpeed,
and I just wanna flag.
I'll probably say this a few times,
but we're referencing something that
is a string reference in essence.
So if I was to go and
change the name of my method in here,
it's not going to change the name that
we're seeing on our animation event, so
it is a little bit of a clunky
approach for doing this.
It's not perfect,
there are some shortfalls.
But it gives us a gigantic amount of
flexibility within our animation
to do super cool things.
So I have SetMovementSpeed, probably
copy that and then paste it in here so
we know we've got it right.
And we need to pass in something,
so that'll be a float.
And we'll call this speed.
And then within our method,
what do we want to do when
something calls SetMovementSpeed?
Well, we need to change this currentSpeed
to be whatever has been passed in.
So we can just say currentSpeed
is now assigned as speed.
So if we go on passing 10, which we're
doing here, we're passing in 10,
then we'll be multiplying
by 10 in the currentSpeed.
Okay, that looks pretty sharp, I reckon.
Save that, back over into Unity.
Now, let's see what it's going to do,
click on Play Okay,
our guy should jump, walk,
walk, walk, and then [SOUND].
Takes off super fast when it gets to this
point where it's going 10, that's awesome.
Now, just a little bit of playing around
here, having a little bit of fun.
You could, at this point of your timeline,
say, walk normally, and then stop.
And that is as simple as saying,
add a new animation event,
find our name,
which we know is SetMovementSpeed.
If you have any issues with this,
the first thing to do is make sure you're
spelling it the same way there
as you're spelling over in here.
And like I said, it's good to copy and
paste to make sure it's all good.
I'm gonna set this at 0, Save.
As simple as that, click on Play.
Walk, walk, jump in first.
Jump, boink, walk, walk, walk,
stop, and then [SOUND] take off.
And then we could add another one
down here that stops it or starts it.
So this is a great way to get tons of
control, not just over how your frames
are playing with the animation, but also
the other things that you want your thing,
your character, to be doing on screen.
We could also get in here and
manipulate our frame.
So I could stretch this out, and here,
if I wanted to have the character walk
slowly, I grab that, I drag it, then
we can have our frames represent that.
But I would need to grab our animation
event and move that back as well.
So you can do a lot of monkeying around,
you can play around in here.
Let's go and
implement our sensible solution now.
So I'm going to shift this all
the way back to the start,
if I can grab it properly, all the way
back to the start, delete this one.
One more time, Rick,
learn how to use a mouse, would you?
Okay, we're gonna set this to 1.
That's the speed we want him to
be walking when he is walking.
Find the other animation, which was,
a lot of the reason we were doing this
is cuz when the character was jumping,
it was moving at one speed and sliding.
So we add an animation
event at the start here.
We paste in our SetMovementSpeed,
and change our float to 0,
which it is already by default.
That is excellent.
Save that up, now see if this works.
We want our character to jump,
not move, and then start walking.
So jump, stationary, and
then start walking, awesome.
And that is because, in our Animator,
we see that our character,
where are you,
Animator Controller, here we go.
We see that our Jump is first to happen.
It's going at 0 speed, and
then we transition into Walk.
And the very first frame of Walk, we are
telling it, through an animation event,
where is my walk animation event,
we're telling it to move at speed of 1.
Okay, cool, so
really super useful technique.
This is something you can
use in fighting games, for
example, if you wanna have
a character reaction.
So right in the middle of
the frame is where they,
it looks like they're punching the other
character, or punching the enemy,
then that is the frame that
you can trigger the damage.
So if you've got this big long swing,
you're not having the code trying to
guess where the actual impact took place.
You can do it right down to the exact
frame of this is exactly where the bullet
strikes, or the punch hits,
or the character jumps.
And you can be triggering all
manner of exciting things,
sound effects, changes in variables, etc.
So there it is, there's the technique
of using the animation event to
add more depth to our animations.
Great work, and
I'll see you in the next video.